# Migrate version 0.3.0
While updating you software from version `0.2.0` (or below) to `0.3.0`, you will need to perform some required actions. 

If you do not manage a validator node, please refer only to the ["*Users*" instructions](#users). However, if you do manage one please also read the ["*Validators*" instructions](#validators). Finally, if you are a developer refer also to the ["*Developers*" instructions](#developers)

## Users
### Migrate your keys
Starting with version `0.3.0` of the `desmoscli` software, local keys are now stored inside a keystore file. While this improves the security of your keys, you are required to migrate to this system manually. In order to do so, run the following command: 

```shell
desmoscli keys migrate 
```  

This will start the migration procedure. 

During such procedure you will be asked which keys should be migrated. At a specific point you will also be asked to insert a password for the keybase. This will be the password that you will use to access all the keys from now on.  


## Validators
Validators need to remember that they will have to execute the `migrate` command during a future chain upgrade. This will be also remembered inside the upgrade procedure guide. 

A part from this, a small state change is required after executing the `export` command. The state JSON file should have the following top fields: 

```json
{
  "app_hash": "",
  "app_state": { },
  "chain_id": "morpheus-1001",
  "consensus_params": { },
  "genesis_time": "2020-01-14T00:00:00Z",
  "validators": []
}
```

In order to make sure the migration to `v0.3.0` works properly, you need to **delete** the `consensus_params` field. You should end up with a state like the following: 

```json
{
  "app_hash": "",
  "app_state": { },
  "chain_id": "morpheus-1001",
  "genesis_time": "2020-01-14T00:00:00Z",
  "validators": []
}
```

## Developers
Version `0.3.0` brings a lot of new features for dApp developers. 

### Messages
- `MSgEditValidator` now uses `description` instead of `Description` as a JSON tag
- `MsgCreatePost` now required SHA-256 values inside the `subspace` field instead of plain-text values

### CLI
- The `decode-tx` has been removed. You can use `decode` instead.

### REST APIs
- There is now a new `/txs/decode` endpoint that allows for easier transaction decoding. 
- All accounts now have a proper JSON serializer, so you want to make sure all the calls to the `/auth/accounts/{address}` endpoint run correctly. 
- The `balance` field inside the `/staking/delegators` endpoint is now an array of coins instead of a decimal number.
